if students do this for 90 minutes it
decreases the chance they'll drop out of
University by 50% so that's how well
this works that's quite something okay
so here's the here's the game so it's
not an easy game but but you can do it
badly and it'll still work so so that's
a good game so the first part of the
game
is give yourself the benefit of the
doubt for the purposes of the game
imagine that the Universe would not
grind cataclysm to a halt if something
as horrible and wretched as you had an
okay
time so it's hard for people to grasp
that because you know you might think of
people as selfish and and self-centered
and out for themselves all of
that most people aren't like that there
there's about 4% of people who are like
that and like look the hell out for them
and they're online trolls by and large
and
um the clinical evidence for that's very
clear by the way
and they're they're they're it's pretty
much them and not you if you're in
interaction with them it's all about
them but most people are the opposite of
that most people are better to other
people than they are to themselves you
know most people are harder on
themselves than they are on anyone else
and you know there's something admirable
about that
because it means to some degree that
you're looking out for other people but
there's something that's not admirable
about it because it means that you're
not treating yourself with the respect
that someone with your intrinsic
worth must have to
flourish and so and the problem is of
course you know more than anyone else
how what the full range of inade
inadequacies what your full range of
inadequacies most precisely is you also
know all the stupid things you've ever
done um and that's a heavy burden and
it's hard to look at yourself knowing
what you know about yourself and then
think that you deserve anything other
than suffering for your sins and so it's
really hard for people to treat
themselves like they would this is some
something else I learned from Carl Yung
you know there's this biblical
injunction to treat to love your
neighbor as if he were yourself but that
sort of presumes you love yourself most
people are better at loving their
neighbors but there's a It's actually an
equation that rule it's like so the
first part of the equation is you should
act out the proposition
that it's incumbent upon you to strive
to put your life together so the best
possible thing could happen to you you
should strive to take care of yourself
as if you're taking care of someone you
love that's hard because you know you're
trouble so that's the first part of the
game is you have to play it's like okay
let's admit for a second
that it wouldn't be the end of the world
if I wasn't being roasted over a slow
fire all the time for my
iniquities I'll give myself a break okay
now so that's the first that's hard you
got to you got to think that through you
know you got to open yourself up to the
possibility that the Earth wouldn't
crack open and swallow you up if you
dared to imagine that things maybe could
go okay for you if you did the right
thing and then the next thing you do is
you got to ask yourself a
question ask yourself whatever that
means it's like how can you ask yourself
and get the answer if if you don't know
the answer and why do you have to ask
the question if you could come up with
the answer so you're not really asking
yourself whatever that means I don't
even know what that
means I thought it up well how well you
don't how do you think things up you
don't know thoughts just appear in the
theater of your imagination they just
spring out of the void and there they
are and you might think well I thought
that up it's like have it your way
but it's not an
explanation it's a theory it's a dream
that it's
you so imagine you ask yourself a
question now the first thing you're
doing is admitting that there's
something you don't know so that's
humility there's something I don't know
that I need to know that I could learn
if I was willing to learn so what don't
you know here's the question 5 years
from
now you could have what you need and
want but you have to specify what it
is now you don't have to specify it
perfectly because as you move towards it
you can improve you know you're going to
learn along the way but you got to get
you got to be aiming in the right
direction vaguely and then you have to
move in that direction to learn what you
need to learn as you move in that
direction so then you think and you have
to ask yourself this and then you have
to imagine it's like
okay I get to have what I
want and
need what would that look like and maybe
you're just stump then you know CU it's
such a big question and you've never
really asked yourself that and no one
else has ever really asked you that
either and so you don't even know where
to begin cuz you're that lost in the
desert that's a good way of thinking
about it so in this online program this
future authoring program we break it
down into seven questions for people my
clients used to come to me my students
too say well I don't really know what to
do what should I do and my answer was I
don't know what the hell you should do
it's like you're
you I'm not here to affirm your identity
or to deny it I'm here to help you
figure out the pathway forward but if
you don't know what to do well here's
some guidelines don't just do nothing
cuz you can't if you do nothing you you
just get old and that's something so
there's no doing nothing so you should
do something what well why don't you do
what other people do if you don't know
what to do you start with that so what
other people do where do people find
meaning in their lives well here's a
bunch of different domains most people
want an intimate relationship and if you
don't well you got to ask yourself what
the hell's going on you know are you
bitter resentful cynical terrified
betrayed hurt
traumatized or you might be a
misanthrope and you're one of those
people who's extremely introverted maybe
you're extremely introverted and
creative and you just want to go the
hell out in the woods and not see anyone
and do your creative thing and it's like
okay you're one in a million you get it
pass but for most people that's just
complete bloody rubbish and so they
people want to have an intimate
relationship okay so you admit that and
then you think well if I could have that
relationship and it was the one I wanted
what would it look like you know and and
that can get very
detailed how would you how would your
family conduct itself if you were
sitting around the dinner
table you know it's like a Norman
Rockwell painting you know that famous
painting of Thanksgiving it's like if
you could have or maybe you're just
having an intimate candlelight dinner
with your wife or your husband and you
get to have it
and it
works well what does it look like who
are you how are you dressed how are you
conducting yourself what are you talking
about who could you
be if you if you could have what you
wanted well you can imagine and you can
and your imagination will provide you
with an answer and then you can write
that down and think well that looks like
that' be a good deal that'd be worth
making a sacrifice for and then you say
well what else do people need well
family well that might mean children
might mean repairing the relationship
with the children you already have might
mean your parents if you're fortunate
enough to still have them or unlucky
enough depending on the parents and
maybe you should fix that relationship
you know and how do you fix it well you
try to find out what you can be grateful
about that your parents delivered to you
and and then everything left over you
see if you can work it out with them
and then you think well if I had a
relationship with my father that I would
want to have what would that look like
and then there you go you got some you
got some work to do right there
[Music]